One day while the Fox was out walking in the forest he met a stranger. Good day, he said. Who are you. I am Mirri, the stranger said, a poor unfortunate Cat out of employment. I had service in a decent family but I've had to leave them. Did they treat you badly. the Fox asked. No, it wasn't that. They were considerate enough but they kept getting poorer and poorer until finally they hadn't food enough to feed us animals. Then I overheard the master say that soon they'd be forced to eat us and that they'd begin with me. At that I decided it was time for me to run away and here I am. My poor Cat, Mikko said, you've had a cruel experience. Why don't you take service with me. Will I be safe with you. the Cat asked. Will you protect me. Will I. the Fox repeated boastfully. My dear Mirri, once it becomes known that you are Mikko's servant all the animals will show you a wholesome respect. Well then, I'll enter your service, the Cat said. So the bargain was struck and the Fox at once began to train his new servant. Now, Mirri, tell me: what would you do if you suddenly met a Bear. There's just one thing I could do, master: I'd run up a tree. The Fox laughed. You must have more ways than one to meet such a situation. Take me now: there are any of a hundred things that I could do if I met a Bear. Just then Osmo, the Bear, ambled softly up behind the Fox. The Cat saw him and instantly flew up a tree. Before the Fox could move Osmo clutched him firmly on the shoulder with his teeth. Oh, master, master. the Cat called down from the tree. What's this. I with my one way have escaped and you with your hundred are caught. But the Fox paid no heed to the Cat. He twisted his head around and looked reproachfully at the Bear. Why, Osmo, my dear old friend. he said, what in the world do you mean taking hold of me so roughly. Ouch. You're nipping my shoulder, really you are. I don't understand why you're acting this way. Here I've always been such a good friend to you, so faithful, so true, so-- What. rumbled the Bear. Faithful. True. Oh, you-- Osmo's feelings overcame him to such an extent that he opened his jaws to roar out freely his denial of the Fox's hypocrisy. That gave the Fox just the chance he wanted. He jerked quickly away and fled and the Bear was left standing with his mouth wide open. Later when the Bear had ambled off the Fox returned and called the Cat down from the tree. You see, Mirri, he remarked casually, it wasn't anything at all for me to get the best of the Bear. He could see that he had vastly impressed the Cat, so he let the subject drop. Come along, Mirri, he said, it's time for us to go home. A day or so later the Fox met Pekka, the Wolf. The Fox hadn't seen much of Pekka recently for Pekka had been having a hard time and had been on the verge of starvation. Now he was sleek again and well fed for he had recently killed an Ox. Good day, Pekka, the Fox said in a friendly way. Good day, Mikko. How are you. Very fine indeed. the Fox said. You see I have a new servant. Oh, he's a wonderful servant. He's not big to look at, you know, but he's so strong and quick that he'd jump on you in a minute and eat you up before you knew what was happening. Really, Mikko. Yes, really. You just ought to see him. I'd like to see him, the Wolf said. Well, you might slip down now and take a peep in the kitchen. He's at home. But, my dear Pekka, I warn you not to let him see you. If he catches sight of you, I won't be responsible for the consequences. The Wolf was deeply impressed with all this. He crept carefully down to the Fox's kitchen and sniffed cautiously at the crack under the door. The Cat inside, seeing the tip of the Wolf's nose and thinking it was a Mouse, pounced on it with all his claws. This gave the Wolf a mighty fright and he bolted madly off into the forest. He was still panting when he met the Bear. Osmo, he said, have you heard about that awful creature that Mikko has for a servant. The Bear had heard nothing, so the Wolf related to him his own terrifying experience. The Bear's curiosity was aroused. I must have a glimpse of this wonderful servant, he said, ambling off in the direction of the Fox's kitchen. I'll wait for you here, the Wolf called after him, and I warn you, Osmo, be careful. The Bear when he got to the Fox's kitchen quietly stuck his nose under the crack of the door and squinted inside. He hardly had time for one squint when a terrible creature with a straight tail that looked like a spear came flying through the air, landed on his nose, and drove it full of pins and needles. Ouch. Ouch. Ouch. the Bear whimpered as he hurried back to the Wolf. Did you see him. the Wolf asked. I got just one glimpse of him, the Bear said. He had a long spear sticking up over his shoulder and he came swooping down through the air just as if he had wings. My. I wish we could really see him. the Wolf said. Suppose we ask Mikko to arrange some way we can have a good look at him. So they went to the Fox and Mikko, the rascal, said: Well, now, if you make a feast and invite my servant I think he will come. All right, the Wolf said, that's what we'll do. I've still got some of that ox. It will make a fine feast. So they roasted the remains of the ox and set it out. Now I'll go get my servant, the Fox said. When you hear us coming, you two hide some place where you can see us but we can't see you. If my servant once sees you I won't be responsible for the consequences. So the Wolf hid in some bushes nearby and the Bear drew himself up into the branches of a tree. Well, the Fox and the Cat arrived and sat them down to the feast. Now it happened that the Wolf was not able to see, so he tried to twist himself around into a better position. The Cat caught a glimpse of his tail moving in the bushes and instantly pounced on it. With one terrified yelp, the Wolf jumped out of the bushes and fled into the forest as fast as he could. In fright the Cat scampered up the tree and the Bear, of course, supposed that the awful creature now was after him. In his frantic efforts to escape he tumbled down out of the tree and broke two ribs. But for all that he made off, too terrified to look back. So the Fox and the Cat were left to finish the ox in peace. Having sacrificed his ox in order to feast the Fox's servant, the Wolf had nothing left for himself and was soon very hungry. He could find nothing to eat in the forest, so he went prowling around a farm in hopes of getting a pig or a chicken. The only living creature he came upon was a thin old Dog asleep in the sun. This is better than nothing, he thought to himself and, taking hold of the Dog, he began dragging it off. Cousin. Cousin. cried the Dog. Is this any way to treat a relation. Let me go. I'm sorry, the Wolf said, but I can't let you go. I'm too hungry. Let me go, the Dog begged, and I tell you what I'll do: I'll give you a bottle of vodka. Promises come easy, the Wolf said. Where will you get the vodka. Under the bench in the kitchen. That's where the master keeps his bottle. I've seen him hide it there. Come to-night after the family's asleep and I'll let you in and give you the vodka. Now Pekka, the Wolf, was very fond of vodka, so he said to the Dog: Very well, I'll let you go. But see that you keep your promise. Late that night when the family were asleep, the Wolf came scratching at the farmhouse door and the Dog let him in. Well, old fellow, you know why I've come, the Wolf said. At once the Dog crawled under the bench and got the master's bottle of vodka. Here, Pekka, here it is. he said, offering the Wolf the bottle. You drink first, Pekka insisted. You're the host. The Dog raised the bottle and took a little sip. Then the Wolf took a deep swallow. Ah. he said, smacking his lips, that's something like. His stomach was empty and the vodka went through his veins like fire. He felt happy and laughed and went capering around the room. <EOS> I feel like singing. he cried. My dear Pekka, the Dog said, I beg you don't sing. You will wake the folks. Sit down quietly and we'll talk. So they sat awhile and talked and then the Wolf took another deep swallow of the vodka. Again he wanted to sing and the Dog had trouble in restraining him. Do you want to wake the family, Pekka. Be quiet now or you can't have any more vodka. The Wolf took another deep drink and after that there was no holding him back. He went staggering around the room howling at the top of his voice. The Farmer and all his family came hurrying into the kitchen with clubs and pokers and whatever they could pick up. It's a Wolf. the Farmer cried. The impudent scoundrel, coming right into the house. Give him a good beating. If the door hadn't been open they would have clubbed poor Pekka to death. As it was he barely escaped with his life. 