There was a certain fairy, that was fond of changing herself into animal forms. She did this, to learn their language and ways, and ideas. Her name was Flax-Flower, because she liked to wear gauzy, blue garments. Having been transformed into a heifer, or young cow, she heard very wonderful accounts of a new animal, that was soon coming to live among men and the other tame creatures. Her curiosity was so great, that she could hardly wait to regain her former state, so as to tell the other fairies about the coming stranger. In fact, this fairy resolved to learn the secret spell, by which she could transform herself into the new creature’s shape, whenever he appeared. We shall now tell you what information Flax-Flower picked up, from hearing what the animals and men and women said in their conversation. She found that the various birds and beasts of the barnyard were, by turns, jealous, or incredulous, or inquisitive, about this wonderful four-legged being, that was to join their society, in Belgium. Then, by listening to the talk of the men and women, she learned its history. This wonderful traveler, on four legs, was to come all the way from Egypt. Its ancestors had lived for ages in the deserts of Africa; and, for thousands of years in the Nile valley, it was known as a useful friend of man. In fact, as far as fancy pictured it, the unknown animal was so magnificent, that words quite failed to describe it properly. In the first place, it belonged to one of the most ancient families in the whole world. As for the high society in which it moved, there was no question about it, nor was anything equal to it. Moreover, it was so gentle and surefooted, that kings and queens, and lords and ladies always selected it to ride on, especially on great occasions. When the creature was milk white, as was often the case, it was held in such honor, and it cost so much money to buy one, that its price was above rubies. In fact, it took a mighty pile of gold coins to purchase the finest of the breed. This superb creature was so desired by those who did not own one of his tribe, that, being reckoned in value along with houses, and wives, and other valuable property, it was a sin to long too much for the possession of one. To tell the truth, it was particularly forbidden, in one of the ten commandments, which, after specifying this treasure on four legs said, Thou shalt not covet. Of course, the Belgians and other European folks, of that distant period, who never saw one of these splendid milk-white specimens, might wonder at this, and even laugh at the idea, for all they had heard was that the creature had a voice and his hearing was very sharp. It was only when they saw one drawing the chariot of the viceroy, or preceding the carriage of the Khedive of Egypt, that they could properly understand the commandment, Thou shalt not covet. Seeing a body guard of splendid cavalry, with their flags and banners, and gay, bright uniforms and glittering drawn swords, they wondered no longer that this remarkable animal was particularly named, though the horse was not. No sooner did their eyes fall on the magnificent creature, than they wanted him, or one like him right off. Travellers in Egypt said he stood for what was Oriental splendor. Neither camels, nor elephants, nor antelopes, nor giraffes, nor zebras, nor tiger cubs led by silver chains, could compare with him. Yet even that was not all. When the mothers and fathers of Belgic Land heard how tame, and gentle, and patient, this lovely creature was, and how he would not kick or bite, and that he would let little boys and girls ride on his back, and trot along gaily, as if he liked young folks, they were too happy for anything. They longed for the day of his arrival. Yet even this did not end the catalogue of the historic creature’s virtues. To the farmers, he seemed either a miracle or a paragon. It cost so little to keep him. Instead of eating his head off, as cows and horses were said to do, or requiring fresh meat, which the dogs howled and cats meoued for, this wonderful quadruped, with such renowned ancestors, mentioned and pictured in the ancient monuments, would live at a quarter of the expense necessary for oxen. It was reported that this high bred and well behaved creature would make a dinner of straw, chaff, weeds, and other cheap stuff, and then bob its head for thanks to the giver. Nor did he ever eat much at a time. In fact, this Oriental wonder set a very good example to greedy boys and girls, that always wanted more. Whereupon, some fathers and mothers actually proposed getting up a festival in his honor, for the proper education of their children and as a good example. It would take too long to tell the full story of the great expectations, excited in both the fairy world and in human society. If we should even attempt to do so, we are sure the children would fall asleep, before we were more than half through. As for the younger fairies, they declared they were just dying to welcome this four-legged racer in chariots and crazy to meet him. In fact, they talked just like young ladies, over their ice cream sodas, in a confectionery shop; or college girls, that say lovely every few minutes. Finally the fairy Flax-Flower resolved to secure, from the Queen of the Fairies, sole permission to hold the spell, which should transform herself into this wonderful being from the Orient. Even to think of Egypt was to set Flax-Flower wild with delight. She conjured up visions of all grand and glorious things, such as pyramids, sphinxes, palm trees, obelisks, Moses and the bulrushes, the Nile River, Cleopatra, scarabs, camels, moonlight and every delightful thing, about which the fairies had heard. Would the Fairy Queen allow Flax-Flower her wish—that is, to be like the wonderful creature that was to come in Belgium. The Queen’s answer, as read in a great court of the fairies, after due counsel taken with the wisest counsellors, was this: That Flax-Flower be permitted to transform herself into the likeness and form of the coming Egyptian creature, but—and here the Queen looked very stern, first at the Flax-Flower, and then at all the company of fairies, who were to bear witness to her words—if she should not like her new nature, she should not be allowed ever to become a fairy again. She must remain, for one year, a four-footed creature. Then, if she wished to be something else—and here she frowned terribly, as if to frighten Flax-Flower, and dissuade her, if possible, from her purpose, but certainly to show that she meant all she said—Flax-Flower must be something that bore the name of the creature, and carried his burden, but not to have his body; and, that she should remain forever in that form which she chose. I agree, said Flax-Flower, but with a sort of gasp, as if terrified, as she thought of what might be her fate. Months still passed away, but the Oriental Wonder had not come. At last, after the fairies had nearly fallen into nervous prostration, in waiting to see the creature from Africa, that was to astonish all, it arrived as large as life. And behold it was a donkey. When Flax-Flower had her first peep at the stranger, she fainted away; but a few drops of dew, thrown in her face, revived her. When shown the quadruped again, and seeing it face to face, with the long ears, shaggy hair, short mane, and bare tail, with only a tuft, like a long-handled paint brush, she drew back in terror. Then, throwing herself at the feet of the Fairy Queen, she cried out most piteously: Is this the creature of our dreams, about which we heard so much in description. With all its glorious record and ancestry, it is the disgrace of creation. Must I take its form. Spare me, oh queen, and I shall be your slave. No, said the Fairy Queen. You must obey the law of fairy land, as laid down in council. I shall make of you an example, to other frivolous fairies. It is so silly of you, or them, to envy other creatures. When you weary of being such a quadruped, if it be the right moment of your release, utter the Flemish name for donkey. Then, you will become a thing of wood, but not the living creature itself; and always after that, you must be burden-bearer for men. You will live forever, on four legs, in an artist’s studio, but you can never be a fairy again. Although Flax-Flower wept copiously, and the tears rolled down out of her beautiful eyes, like rain drops, the spell proceeded. Like magic, her pretty, pink ears sprouted into long and hairy things, as big as powder horns. Her mouth widened to the width of a cow’s muzzle, her lovely white skin was changed into a shaggy hide; and, last of all, something like a rope, with a hairy tuft like a ball of yarn-fringe, at the end, appeared from behind. At first, she fell down on her hands and knees, with grief; but, when she got up, she was on four legs. To show how completely she had been transformed, out of her mouth sounded what the real donkey in the barnyard recognized at once, as a vocal effort. He pricked up six or eight inches of his ears with delight and immediately felt at home. But as soon as the rough farmer’s boy heard the noise, he called it braying. He declared to his father, that there was a donkey in the woods, calling, either for a thistle or a mate. Thereupon Bavon, as the boy’s name was, grabbed a big bunch of stems of the prickly weed. He threw his armful of the green stuff in, where he had heard the new sort of a nightingale. And what happened. Well, the being that, but an hour before, was a lovely fairy, showed that it had an appetite and was very hungry. It now opened its mouth and chewed up the spiny stuff, as if it had been used to such breakfasts all its life. Then it put out its tongue and smacked its lips, as if it enjoyed the new diet, but now wanted some beans. Worse than all, the next day the farmer’s boy caught the new donkey, led it by a halter, and harnessed the beast to a cart. He had now a pair of Orientals. Every day he took his team, which some fellow named Rabbit Ears, to the field, to plough with; or, into town, to carry his carrots or cabbages to market. Happily, he found that the donkey’s reputation for patient hard work, economical diet, and general good behavior, was all he had heard it to be. The cost of feeding both animals was surprisingly little. Some people declared that, in winter, the Rabbit-eared beast was fed chiefly on barnyard fences and the East Wind. Now the farmer’s boy had taste and liked to draw and paint. He drew pictures with chalk on the barn door, and he cultivated his talents, especially in winter. Having no money to spare, to buy a paint brush or colors, he pulled some hairs out of poor pussy’s tail, and made one, and he squeezed colors out of the juice of berries. By and bye he attracted the attention of a famous artist in Antwerp, who offered to employ the boy in his house. Overjoyed at the idea, the farmer’s boy asked if he could take his favorite donkey with him. Permission was given, and lo. the lad chose the one that was a transformed fairy. The boy rode to the great city on his long-eared beast, and, having arrived at the artist’s dwelling, he locked up the creature in the stable and reported to his master. Now this happened just about the time for the spell to be broken, when Flax-Flower was to resume, not her former shape, which she could not, but something with a donkey’s name. Now there were, already, a half dozen things called after the long-eared and useful beast, such as a pump, a drying frame, and several tools, but Flax-Flower longed to keep in good company. <EOS> She therefore had made up her mind, which one she could choose. During the night, the spell was broken, and she took her final shape in wood, and in a frame with four legs, with pegs in it to hold a picture. So when the farmer’s boy came into the stable, next morning, there was no donkey visible in the stall, but, instead, there stood a beautiful new easel. Carrying it into his master’s studio, he placed his masterpiece upon it, and the great painter was well pleased. When, in time, by hard work, the farmer’s boy had himself become great, she had held the pictures which he painted; and many rich patrons, ladies and gentlemen, came into his studio, to admire his triumphs. So, for centuries, the artists, who painted lovely scenes and portraits, have employed, for their work, Flax-Flower, now become an easel, the name, which, in Flemish is Ezel, meaning Little Donkey; but she never spoke a word, thus excelling in silence even the original. But what had, in Æsop’s day, been reckoned, the disgrace of creation, became the bearer of beauty unto unnumbered generations of men.