Stan Bolovan. Once upon a time, something happened. If it hadn't happened, it wouldn't be told. At the edge of the village, where the peasants' oxen break through the hedges and the neighbors' hogs wallow in the ground under the fences, there once stood a house. In this house lived a man, and the man had a wife; but the wife grieved all day long. What troubles you, dear wife, that you sit there drooping like a frost-bitten bud in the sunlight. her husband asked one day. You have all you need. So be cheerful, like other folks. Let me alone, and ask no more questions. replied the wife, and became still more melancholy than before. Her husband questioned her the second time, and received the same reply. But, when he asked again, she answered more fully. Dear me, she said, why do you trouble your head about it. If you know, you'll be just sorrowful as I am. It's better for me not to tell you. But, to this, people will never agree. If you tell a person he must sit still, he is more anxious to move than ever. Stan was now determined to know what was in his wife's mind. If you are determined to hear, I'll tell you, said the wife. There's no luck in the house, husband,--there's no luck in the house. Isn't the cow a good one. Are not the fruit-trees and bee-hives full. Are not the fields fertile. asked Stan. You talk nonsense, if you complain of any thing. But, husband, we have no children. Stan understood; and, when a man realizes such a thing, it isn't well. From this time, a sorrowful man and a sorrowful woman lived in the house on the edge of the village. And they were sorrowful because the Lord had given them no children. When the wife saw her husband sad, she grew still more melancholy; and the more melancholy she was, the greater his grief became. This continued for a long time. They had masses repeated and prayers read in all the churches. They questioned all the witches, but God's gift did not come. One day, two travelers arrived at Stan's house, and were joyfully received and entertained with the best food he had. They were angels in disguise; and, perceiving that Stan and his wife were good people, one of them, while throwing his knapsack over his shoulder to continue his journey, asked his host what he most desired, and said that any three of his wishes should be fulfilled. Give me children, replied Stan. What else shall I give you. Children, sir, give me children. Take care, said the angel, or there will be too many of them. Have you enough to support them. Never mind that, sir,--only give them to me. The travelers departed; but Stan accompanied them as far as the high-road, that they might not lose their way among the fields and woods. When Stan reached home again, he found the house, yard, and garden filled with children, in all not less than a hundred. Not one was larger than the other; but each was more quarrelsome, bolder, more mischievous and noisier than the rest. And, in some way, God made Stan feel and know that they all belonged to him and were his. Good gracious. What a lot of them. he cried, standing in the midst of the throng. But not too many, husband, replied his wife, bringing a little flock with her. Then followed days which can only be experienced by a man who has a hundred children. The house and village echoed with shouts of father and mother, and the world was full of happiness. But taking care of children isn't so simple a matter. Many pleasures come with many troubles, and many troubles with many joys. When, after a few days, the children began to shout, Father, I'm hungry. Stan began to scratch his head. There did not seem to him to be too many children, for God's gift is good, however large it may be; but his barns were too small, the cow was growing thin, and the fields did not produce enough. I'll tell you what, wife, said Stan one day, it seems to me that there isn't much harmony in our affairs. As God was good enough to give us so many children, He ought to have filled the measure of His goodness, and sent us food for them, too. Search for it, husband, the wife answered. Who knows where it may be concealed. The Lord never does a thing by halves. Stan went out into the wide world to find God's gift. He was firmly resolved to return home laden with food. Aha. The road of the hungry is always a long one. A man doesn't earn food for a hundred greedy children in a trice. Stan wandered on, on, on, till he had fairly run himself off his feet. When he had thus arrived nearly at the end of the world, where what is mixes with what is not, he saw in the distance, in the middle of a field which lay spread out as flat as a cake, a sheep-fold. By it stood seven shepherds, and in the shadow within lay a flock of sheep. Lord, help me, said Stan, and went up to the fold to see whether, by patience and discretion, he might not find some employment there. But he soon discovered that there was not much more hope here than in the other places whither he had journeyed. This was the state of affairs: every night, at precisely twelve o'clock, a furious dragon came and took from the herd a ram, a sheep, and a lamb, three animals in all. He also carried milk enough for seventy-seven lambkins to the old she-dragon, that she might bathe in it and grow young. The shepherds were very angry about it, and complained bitterly. So Stan saw that he was not likely to return home from here richly laden with food for his children. But there is no spur more powerful than for a man to see his children starving. An idea entered Stan's head, and he said boldly, What would you give me, if I released you from the greedy dragon. One of each three rams shall be yours, one-third of the sheep, and one-third of the lambs, replied the shepherds. Agreed, said Stan; yet he felt rather anxious, lest he might find it too hard to drive the flock home alone. But there was no hurry about that. It was some time before midnight. And besides, to tell the truth, Stan did not exactly know how he was to get rid of the dragon. The Lord will send me some clever plan, he said to himself, and then counted the flock again to see how many animals he would have. Just at midnight, when day and night, weary of strife, for a moment stood still, Stan felt that he was about to see something he had never beheld before. It was something that can not be described. It is a horrible thing to have a dragon come. It seemed as if the monster was hurling huge rocks at the trees, and thus forcing a way through primeval forests. Even Stan felt that he should be wise to take the quickest way off, and enter into no quarrel with a dragon. Ah. but his children at home were starving. I'll kill you or you shall kill me. Stan said to himself, and remained where he was, close by the sheep-fold. Stop. he cried, when he saw the dragon near the fold; and he shouted as though he was a person of importance. H'm, said the dragon: where did you come from, that you screech at me so. I am Stan Bolovan, who at night devours rocks and by day grazes on the trees of the primeval forests; and if you touch the flock, I'll cut a cross on your back, and bathe you in holy water. When the dragon heard these words, he stopped in the midst of his career; for he saw that he had found his match. But you must first fight with me, replied the dragon, hesitatingly. _I_ fight with you. cried Stan. Beware of the words that have escaped your lips. My breath is stronger than your whole body. Then, taking from his knapsack a piece of white cheese, he showed it to the dragon. Do you see this stone. he said. Pick one up from the bank of yonder stream, and we'll try our strength. The dragon took a stone from the shore of the brook. Can you squeeze buttermilk out of the stone. asked Stan. The dragon crushed the stone in his hand, so that he crumbled it into powder. But he squeezed no buttermilk from it. It can't be done, he said rather angrily. I'll show you whether it can be done, replied Stan, and then squeezed the soft cheese in his hand, till the buttermilk trickled down between his fingers. When the dragon saw this, he began to look about him to find the shortest road to run away; but Stan placed himself before the forest. Let us have a little reckoning about what you have taken from the fold, he said. Nothing is given away here. The poor dragon would have taken flight, if he hadn't been afraid that Stan might blow behind him, and bury him under the trees in the forest. So he stood still, like a person who doesn't know what else to do. Listen. he said, after a while. I see that you are a useful man. My mother has long been looking for a servant like you, but has not been able to find one. Enter our service. The year has three days, and each day's wages is seven sacks of ducats. Three times seven sacks of ducats. A fine business. That was just what Stan needed. And, he thought, if I've outwitted the dragon, I can probably get the better of his mother. So he didn't waste many words about the matter, but set off with the monster. A long, rough road; but still it was too short, since it led to a bad end. It seemed to Stan as if he had arrived almost before he started. The old she-dragon, old as Time itself, was waiting for them. She had made a fire under the huge caldron, in which she meant to boil the milk and mix it with the blood of a lamb and the marrow from its bones, that the liquid might have healing power. Stan saw her eyes glistening in the darkness when they were still three gun-shots off. But, when they reached the spot and the she-dragon perceived that her son had brought her nothing, she was very angry. This she-dragon was by no means lovable. She had a wrinkled face, open jaws, tangled hair, sunken eyes, parched lips, and a breath reeking with the smell of onions. Stay here, said the dragon. I'll go and make arrangements with my mother. Stan would willingly have stood still further off, but he had no choice now that he had once entered upon this evil business. So he let the dragon go on. Listen, mother. said the dragon, when he had entered the house. I've brought you a man to get rid of. He's a terrible fellow, who eats pieces of rock and squeezes buttermilk out of stones. Then he told her what had happened. Just leave him to me, she said, after hearing the whole story. No man ever slipped through _my_ fingers. So the matter remained as it had first been settled. Stan Bolovan became the servant of this monster and his mother. A terrible fix. I really don't know what will come of it. The next day, the she-dragon gave him his task. They were to give a signal to the dragon world with a club sheathed in seven thicknesses of iron. The dragon raised the club and hurled it three miles, then he set off with Stan, that he might also throw it three miles, or, if possible, further still. When Stan reached the club, he began to look at it rather anxiously. He saw that he and all his children together could not even lift it from the ground. Why are you standing there. asked the dragon. Why, you see, it's such a handsome club. I'm sorry, replied Stan. Sorry. Why. inquired the dragon. Because, answered Stan, I'm afraid you'll never see it again in your whole life, if I throw it; for I know my own strength. Don't fear. Just throw it, replied the dragon. If you really mean it, we'll first go and get provisions enough to last three days; for we shall have to travel at least three days, if not longer, to get it. These words frightened the dragon, but he did not yet believe that it would be so bad as Stan said. So they went home for the provisions, though he wasn't at all pleased with the idea of having Stan serve his year in merely going after the club. When they got back again to it, Stan sat down on the bag of provisions and became absorbed in staring at the moon. What are you doing. asked the dragon. Only waiting for the moon to sail by. Why. Don't you see that the moon is directly in my way. said Stan. Or do you want me to fling the club into the moon. The dragon now began to be seriously anxious. It was a club that had descended to him from his ancestors, and he wouldn't have liked to lose it in the moon. I'll tell you what, he said. Don't throw the club. I'll do it myself. Certainly not. Heaven forbid. replied Stan. Only wait till the moon passes by. Then a long conversation followed; for Stan would not consent to have the dragon throw the club again, except on the promise of seven sacks of ducats. Oh, dear. mother, he's a tremendously strong man, said the dragon. I could scarcely prevent him from throwing the club into the moon. The she-dragon began to be anxious, too. Just think of it. Would it be a joke to have a person able to throw any thing into the moon. She was a she-dragon of true dragon blood, however, and the next day had thought of a still harder task. Bring some water, she said early in the morning, and gave each twelve buffalo skins, ordering them to fill them by evening, and fetch them all home at once. They went to the well; and, before one could wink, the dragon had filled the twelve skins, and was in the act of carrying them back. Stan was tired, he had scarcely been able to drag the empty skins along. A chill ran through his veins, when he thought of the full ones. What do you suppose he did. He pulled a worn-out knife blade from his belt, and began to scratch the earth around the well with it. What are you doing. asked the dragon. I'm not a blockhead, that I should go to the labor of filling the skins with water, replied Stan. But how will you carry the water to the house, then. How. Just as you see, said Stan. I'm going to take the well, you goose. The dragon stood with his mouth wide-open in amazement. He wouldn't have had this done on any account, for the well was one that had belonged to his ancestors. I'll tell you, he said anxiously, let me carry your skins home, too. Certainly not. Heaven forbid. replied Stan, digging on around the well. Now, another long discussion followed; and this time, too, the dragon could only persuade Stan by promising him seven sacks of ducats. On the third day, that is the last one, the she-dragon sent them into the forest for wood. Before one could count three, the dragon tore up more trees than Stan had ever seen before in his whole life, and piled them up together. But Stan began to examine the trees, chose the very finest, climbed up into one and tied its top with a wild grape-vine to the next. So, without saying a word, he continued to fasten one splendid tree to another. What are you doing there. asked the dragon. You see what I am doing, replied Stan, working quietly on. Why are you tying the trees together. Why, to save myself unnecessary work in pulling them up one by one, said Stan. But how are you going to carry them home. I shall take the whole forest, you goose. Can't you understand that. said Stan, continuing to fasten them together. The dragon now felt as if he wanted to take to his heels, and never stop until he reached home. But he was afraid that he should suddenly find Stan pulling the whole forest down on his head. This time, as it was the end of the year's service, it seemed as if the discussion would never cease. Stan did not want to listen at all, but had set his mind upon flinging the forest on his back at any rate. I'll tell you what, said the dragon, trembling with fear, your wages shall be seven times seven sacks of ducats. Content yourself with that. Well, be it so, as I see you are a good fellow, replied Stan, and agreed that the dragon should carry the wood for him. The year was now over. Stan was anxious only about one things--how he was to drag so many ducats home. In the evening, the dragon and his mother sat talking together in their room; but Stan listened in the entry. Woe betide us. said the dragon: this fellow upsets us terribly. Give him money, even more than he has, only let us get rid of him. Ah, yes. but the she-dragon cared for money. Let me tell you one thing, she said: you must kill this man to-night. I am afraid of him, mother, he answered in terror. Have no fear, replied his mother. When you see that he is asleep, take your club and strike him in the middle of the forehead. So it was agreed. Ah, yes. but Stan always had a bright idea at the right time. When he saw that the dragon and his mother had put out the light, he took the pig's trough, and laid it bottom upward in his place, covered it carefully with a shaggy coat, and lay down himself under the bed, where he began to snore like a person who is sound asleep. The dragon went out softly, approached the bed, raised his club, and struck one blow on the spot where Stan's head ought to have been. The trough sounded hollow, Stan groaned, and the dragon tiptoed back again. Stan then crept out from under the bed, cleaned it, and lay down, but was wise enough not to close an eye all night long. The dragon and his mother were rigid with amazement when they saw Stan come in the next morning as sound as an egg. Good morning. Good morning; but how did you sleep last night. Very well, replied Stan. Only I dreamed that a flea bit me just here on the forehead, and it seems as if it still pained me. Just listen to that, mother. cried the dragon. Did you hear. He talks about a flea, and I hit him with my club. This was too much for the she-dragon. She perceived that it isn't worth while to argue with such people. So they hastened to fill his sacks, in order to get rid of him as quickly as possible. But poor Stan now began to perspire. When he stood beside the bags, he trembled like an aspen leaf, because he was unable to lift even one of them from the ground. So he stood staring at them. Why are you standing there. asked the dragon. H'm. I'm waiting, replied Stan, because I would rather stay with you another year. I'm ashamed to have any body see me carry away so little at one time. I'm afraid people will say, 'Look at Stan Bolovan, who in one year has grown as weak as a dragon.' Now, it was the two dragons' turn to be frightened. They vainly told him that they would give him seven--nay, three times seven or even seven times seven--sacks of ducats, if he would only go away. I'll tell you what, said Stan, at last. As I see you don't want to keep me, I won't force you to do so. Have it your own way. I'll go. But, that I need not be ashamed before the people, you must carry this treasure home for me. The words were scarcely out of his mouth, when the dragon picked up the sacks and set off with Stan. Short and smooth, yet always too long, is the road that leads home. But, when Stan found himself close to his house, and heard his children's shouts, he began to walk slower. It seemed too near; for he was afraid that, if the dragon knew where he lived, he might come to take away the treasure. Only he was puzzled to find any way of carrying his money home alone. I really don't know what to do, he said, turning to the dragon. I have a hundred hungry children, and fear you may fare badly among them, because they are very fond of fighting. But just behave sensibly, and I'll protect you as well as I can. A hundred children. That's no joke. The dragon--though a dragon of dragon race--let the bags fall in his fright. But, from sheer terror, he picked them up again. Yet his fear did not gain the mastery till they entered the court-yard. When the hungry children saw their father coming with the loaded dragon, they rushed toward him, each one with a knife in the right hand and a fork in the left. Then they all began to whet the knives on the forks, shrieking at the top of their lungs, We want dragon meat. This was enough to scare Satan himself. The dragon threw down the sacks, and then took to flight, so frightened that since that time he has never dared to come back to the world. The Wonderful Bird. Once upon a time, something happened. If it had not happened, it would not be told. There was a good, pious emperor, who had three sons. Among many other benefits bestowed upon the inhabitants of his empire he built a church, about which marvelous stories were told, for he adorned it with gold, precious stones and every thing the workmen of that country regarded as beautiful and valuable. Within and in front of this church were numbers of marble columns, and it was supplied with the finest paintings, silver chandeliers, huge silver lamps, and the rarest books. The more the emperor rejoiced in its beauty, the more sorrowful he felt that he could not finish it, for the steeple continually fell down. How is it that this sacred church can not be completed. he asked. I have spent all my property and it is not yet done. So he ordered a proclamation to be sent throughout the empire, stating that any architect who could finish the church steeple would receive great gifts and honors. Besides this, a second proclamation was issued, commanding prayers to be read and services held in all the churches, that God might take pity on him and send him a good architect. The third night the monarch dreamed that if any one would fetch the wonderful bird from the other shore and put its nest in the steeple, the church could be finished. He told this dream to his sons, and they vied with each other in offering to set out and devote themselves to their imperial father's service. The emperor replied: I see, my sons, that you all desire to fulfill your duty to God, but you can't all three go at once. My oldest son shall set out first, if he does not succeed, the second one, and so on until the Lord takes pity upon us. The younger sons silently submitted; the oldest one made his preparations for the journey. He traveled as best he could, and when he had passed the frontiers of his father's empire, found himself in a beautiful grove. After lighting a fire he stood waiting until his food was cooked. Suddenly he saw a fox, which begged him to tie up his hound, give it a bit of bread and a glass of wine, and let it rest by his fire. Instead of granting the request the prince released the hound, which instantly pursued the animal, whereupon the fox, by a magic spell, transformed the emperor's son into a block of stone. When the sovereign saw that his oldest son did not return, he listened to the entreaties of his second son, and gave him permission to set forth to find the wonderful bird. After making his preparations and taking some provisions with him, this prince also departed. On the spot where his brother had been turned to stone, the same thing happened to him, because he also refused the fox's entreaties, and tried to catch it, to get its skin. The emperor grew very thoughtful, when after a long time his sons failed to return, either with or without the wonderful bird. At last the youngest said: You see, father, it is now a long time since my brothers set out to find the wonderful bird, and they haven't come home yet; give me some money and clothes for the journey that I may try my luck also. If I succeed, you will rejoice, because your dream will be fulfilled, and if I do not, you will suffer no mortification from it. Your older brothers have apparently been unable to get this wonderful bird, replied the emperor; nay, perhaps they have even lost their lives, they have been absent so long. I am old; if you go too, who will help me in the cares of government; if I die, who is there to ascend the throne except you, my son. Stay here, my dear child, do not leave me. You know, my royal father, that I have never swerved a hair's breadth from your commands, and if I now venture to urge my petition it is only because, if possible, I would fain fulfill a wish that gives you no rest, which you have cherished so many years and striven to realize at so great a cost. After many entreaties, the emperor yielded. The prince chose from the imperial stables a horse that pleased him, took a dog for a companion, supplied himself with sufficient food and departed. After some time had passed, the emperor's two older sons suddenly arrived with the magic bird and a young girl, who was placed in charge of the poultry-yard. Every body wondered at the beauty of the bird, whose plumage glittered with a thousand hues, each feather shining like the sun, and the church-steeple did not fall after the bird and its nest were placed within. One thing, however, was noticed; the bird seemed dumb, it never uttered a note, and all who saw it grieved that so beautiful a creature should have no song; even the emperor, spite of all the pleasure he took in the church and steeple, was sorrowful because the bird did not sing. People began to forget the youngest son, so great was the rejoicing over the bird that seemed to keep the steeple from falling, and thus enabled the workmen to finish the church; but the emperor grieved because the prince was not there to share his subjects' pleasure. One day the poultry-keeper came to him and said: May thy face shine, mighty emperor, the whole city is marveling at the singing of the magic bird--a shepherd entered the church early this morning, and the bird instantly began to sing as if it would burst its throat, and is so happy that it can hardly keep in its nest. This has happened to-day for the second time. While the shepherd is in the church the bird never stops singing, but as soon as he goes away, it is silent. Let the shepherd be brought before me at once. Your majesty, the shepherd seems to be a stranger; no one here knows him. Your majesty's sons, I hear, have set guards to arrest him. Silence, said the emperor; do not mention my sons; it is not seemly for you to speak against them. The sovereign sent some of his most trusty servants to keep watch, seize the shepherd as soon as he entered the church and the bird began to sing, and bring him before him. But, not content with this, he went himself the next holiday to hear the bird's wonderful singing with his own ears, and see the shepherd. If he had not been present, a violent conflict would have arisen between his own people and the spies sent by his sons, who evidently wished to lay hands on the shepherd. The emperor ordered that he should be brought to the palace, for a strange feeling stirred in his heart when he saw the timid youth with the figure of a hero. When he came out of church, the monarch went directly home to his palace, for his heart told him that there must be something unusual about this shepherd. On seeing him, he said:-- Tell me, my son, from what part of the country do you come. Have you any parents, and how did you get here. My story is a long one, most noble emperor. I have parents and brothers. I shall need more time to tell you how I came hither, but if it is your majesty's will, I am ready. I will come to your majesty early to-morrow morning, it is too late to-day. Very well, my brave fellow, I will expect you at dawn to-morrow. Early the next morning the shepherd came to await the emperor's commands; but as soon as the emperor heard that he had arrived, he summoned him. Tell me, my son, what is the reason the magic bird sings as soon as you enter the church, and stops when you go out. To understand that and other things, your majesty, let me tell you my whole story. I will listen; tell me anything you please. The shepherd then began:-- I have a father, and brothers. I left my home to do something to please my father, who was sad because he had a wish that could not be fulfilled. After a journey of several days I reached a beautiful meadow, from which branched several roads. Intending to spend the night there, I lighted a fire, took out some of the provisions I had brought with me, and was just sitting down to eat them, when I suddenly saw a fox beside me. Whence it came I did not know; it seemed as if it had sprung up out of the earth. 'Please let me warm myself by your fire,' it said. 'See, I am so cold that my teeth chatter. Give me a bit of bread and a glass of wine, that I may satisfy my hunger and thirst, and tie your dog, so I can eat in peace and rest without fear.' 'Very well,' I replied, 'come and warm yourself. Here are my provisions and my flask, eat and drink as much as you choose.' I tied my dog, and we sat down by the fire and talked together. Among other things, I told the fox where I was going, and even asked if it could tell me what I should do to accomplish the task I had voluntarily undertaken. 'Have no anxiety about that,' replied the fox. 'We'll set out together early to-morrow morning, and if I don't help you to the goal, never trust me again.' We sat by the fire, feasting like two friends, then the fox bade me good-night, and vanished like a shadow. I wondered how it had been possible that I did not see what direction the animal took, and while racking my brains to find out how it had managed to go and come unperceived, I fell asleep. When the fox came at dawn next morning, it found me gazing in astonishment at several blocks of stone, which resembled two men, two dogs, and two horses. As soon as I saw the animal, we prepared to set out. The fox turned three somersaults and suddenly changed into a handsome hero. On the way he told me that the place where I had spent the night was part of his property, that he was married and had several children, but had been condemned to wear the form of a fox until some human being would take pity on him and receive him, let him warm himself by the same fire, give him a bit of bread and glass of wine. As I was this man, he was now released from the spell, and would go with me and never leave me until I had accomplished my object. This event pleased me, and we journeyed on and on all through the long summer day until late at night when we reached a mountain meadow, where we encamped. My traveling companion told me that the next day we should be obliged to pass through the lands of several dragons, and he thought we should there find what we sought. The following morning we entered the dragons' country, though somewhat timidly, and about noon reached the dragon-palace. It is impossible to describe the magnificent things we saw there. Gardens with all sorts of flowers and fruits, rooms that seemed lined with silver, so that they shone in the sun like mirrors, walls covered with paintings and carved flowers. Every corner of the palace was gilded, and fountains cast jets of water into the air. Luckily for us, the dragons were not at home when we arrived. On the threshold we met a beautiful girl, a girl who looked as sweet as if she were made of sugar, and who advised us not to enter the court-yard in the dragons' absence, or we should meet with some misfortune. Then she wept for joy at seeing people from the place from whence the dragons had stolen her. When we asked her about the wonderful bird, she said it was in the possession of some other dragons, relatives of those on whose lands we were. 'Go there,' she added, 'for with God's help, I hope you will succeed, and when you return, take me with you.' After she had told us how we could enter the dragons' court-yard and what we must do, I swore by what was dearest to me in the world, my father, that I would not leave her in the dragons' power, but take her away. Then we continued the journey. To tell the truth, I loved her as soon as I saw her. When we reached the borders of the next dragon-kingdom, we stopped to rest, but at dawn the following day we crossed the frontier and by noon reached their palace, which was even more beautiful than the first one. As soon as I had dismounted from my horse, I went to the stable, but my companion turned back, for this was what the girl had advised. The horses were at their cribs. One turned its head and looked at me. I patted its eyes, pulled its ears, threw a bridle over its neck, mounted it, and in riding by, took the cage with the magic bird that hung in the entry. You brought the wonderful bird. cried the emperor. Then you are my son, whom all believe dead. Even so, father. And after kissing the emperor's hand, he begged him to send for the poultry-keeper. When she came, the shepherd said, This is the girl of whom I told you. How is that possible. replied the emperor. How did she become a poultry maid. She'll tell you that herself. I don't know. So, as I was saying, he continued, after I had snatched the cage I fled as fast as I could on the horse I had taken from the dragons, but the other horses began to neigh and make such a noise that my hair fairly bristled, yet I held firm. The dragons chased me until I reached my comrade, who was waiting for me on the frontier. If it had not been for him, they would have seized me, and who knows what would have become of me then. But my companion stretched out his hand, shouting, 'Stop.' The dragons seemed to be suddenly turned to stone; not another step forward did they take. After embracing and kissing me he admired the bird's beauty. The dragons did every thing in their power to get it from me, and made all sorts of promises, but when they saw they could not persuade me, begged me at least to give them the horse. I perceived it would not be right to leave them in such a sad state, so I returned the horse and went on with my companion and the bird, but the dragons almost stared their eyes out after it. When we reached the other dragon palace, the girl was waiting for us at the gate. Cracking her whip three times the whole building changed into an apple, which she put in her pocket. I passed my arm around her, and we set out. But oh. dear, when the dragons discovered it. How they chased us, roaring so that our blood curdled in our veins. I summoned all my courage, spurred my horse, and fled like the wind with my companion. But the dragons came as fast as thought. When my comrade saw this, and perceived that there was no possibility of escape, he stopped, made a sign and turned them into blocks of stone. Then we continued our journey till we reached the field from which we had started and which was part of the fox's property. After we had rested and I had thanked God that we had accomplished our task, I asked my comrade what those stone pillars meant. He answered: 'If you know you will regret it, and if you don't know, you will also regret it.' 'Pray tell me.' 'These are your brothers,' he answered. 'Instead of kindly granting my request, as you did, they set their hounds on me, which condemned me to wear the loathsome fox-skin still longer, so I turned them to stone.' 'For my sake,' I entreated, 'for the sake of our friendship, make them men again as they were before.' 'I prize your friendship greatly,' he replied, 'so let it be as you wish--but you'll repent it.' In an instant he made a sign with his hand, the stones suddenly shook, and my brothers remained motionless with amazement, when they saw us before them. We took leave of my comrade and set out on our way home. But see what a fine trick my brothers played me. 'Brother,' they said, after we had ridden about a mile, 'we are tired by the long distance, and it is very warm. Let us go to a pond we know here and each drink a little to cool ourselves.' I agreed, and we went there. The oldest drank, so did the second one, but when I was going to drink too, lying face downward at the edge of the pond, so that I could reach the water with my lips, as they had done, I suddenly felt a terrible burning sensation in both feet, and when I turned to see the cause, could not get up; my brothers had cut off both my feet, and then hurried off, without listening to my complaints and entreaties. I spent three days and nights beside the pond. <EOS> When my good horse saw a dragon coming, it lifted me by my clothes with its teeth, ran as far as it could and kicked so violently that no wild beast could approach us. At last, on the fourth day, I met a blind man groping his way along. 'Who are you.' I asked. 'A poor, maimed fellow,' said he. Then, after he had told me that his brothers, out of envy, had put out his eyes, I told him that my brothers had cut off my feet. 'I'll tell you what.' he exclaimed. 'We'll take an oath of brotherhood. I have feet, you have eyes, so I'll carry you on my back. I'll walk for you, and you shall see for me. A huge scorpion lives close by, whose blood cures all kinds of diseases.' I accepted his offer, and we went to the scorpion's house. He was not at home, so the blind man put me behind the door, telling me to kill him with my sword as soon as he came in; then he hid himself behind the stove. We did not wait long before the scorpion entered in a great rage, for he had noticed that somebody had broken into his house. When I saw him my heart shrunk till it was no bigger than a flea, but as he came in I waited till he was close by me, then struck one blow that chopped all three of his heads off at once. I instantly smeared myself with the hot blood and as soon as it touched my feet they stuck as fast as if they had never been cut off. I also smeared the blind man's eyes, and his sight returned. After thanking God, each set out on his own way. I did not want to go home at once, but thought it best to hire out as a shepherd and leave God to arrange things so that the criminals' guilt should appear. I was not disappointed in my confidence, for you see His power is great and His judgment just. Now tell me how you became a servant and poultry-maid, said the emperor to the maiden. After your imperial majesty's oldest sons had cut off their youngest brother's feet, one of them took me, the other the wonderful bird. I thought my heart would dissolve with grief because I was obliged to part from your majesty's youngest son, whom I loved because he was such a noble man. They proposed that I should love one of them, and promised that he would marry me as soon as we reached the emperor's court. After refusing all their offers, I preferred to take service as your majesty's poultry maid, rather than go any where else, for I knew God would not let a man who did right perish, and now I thank Him for having shown me that a good deed is never lost. Can you prove, asked the emperor, that you are the girl and no one else. This apple will show every one that I am she, replied the girl, drawing it from her bosom. Your older sons knew nothing about it, or they would have taken it from me. With these words she went out of doors, cracked a little whip three times over the apple and a magnificent palace, more splendid than any in the kingdom, instantly arose. The emperor himself was astonished. He wished to celebrate his youngest son's return, but the latter said, Father, before we thank God that I have come home alive, let us three brothers submit to His judgment. The emperor could make no objection. The brothers were led before him and he ordered the older ones to kneel and ask the youngest son's forgiveness. But he replied: If God forgives you, I will also. As they could not avoid it, they went in front of the church, and set out three bee-hives at equal distances apart. Each brother stood with his feet in one, and hurled a stone into the air from a sling. The elder brothers' stones in falling back struck them so hard on the head that they were killed, but the youngest brother's fell in front of him. Many had assembled to witness this trial. After the wedding was over and the emperor had married his son to the poultry-maid, he came down from the throne and gave it to the prince, who, if alive, reigns there still. I was present at these events, and now tell them to those who listen.